Trump Tweet Habit Analysis
================
Wenlong Yang
11/4/2019

## Introduction

President is one of the branch in our government. The behavior of the
president and its impacts deserve great public attention. President
Trump use twitter as a major way to communicate with the public. I want
to find out more about Trump from his tweets. I also want to find out
public opinions on different issues based on public reactions to Trump’s
tweets.

The data was downloaded from a
[website](http://www.trumptwitterarchive.com/data/realdonaldtrump/)
created by Brendan Brown. I extracted all of Trump’s tweets from 2009 to
Nov. 3rd 2019 as the total data. The size of the data is about 9 Mb.

## The devices and how the distribution changes by year

First of all, let us take a look at the devices Trump use to send
tweets. We will look at the statistics for the whole time between 2009
to 2019.

![](report-markdown_files/figure-gfm/trump%20tweet%20devices-1.png)<!-- -->

Now, let us check the number of tweets by year.

![](report-markdown_files/figure-gfm/trump%20tweet%20by%20year-1.png)<!-- -->

Let us check which device Trump uses to tweet during these years.

![](report-markdown_files/figure-gfm/plot%20the%20source%20by%20year-1.png)<!-- -->

Seems that Trump was using web browsers only before 2012. At 2013, Trump
started to use Android devices. Then he gradually shift from Android to
Apple and phased out the web browser almost completely at 2019. Trump
started to tweet extensively since 2012. It seems the adoption of mobile
device is to satisfy the demand of tweeting. A more detailed analysis by
month for 2012 and 2013 may shed more light on this. In the first year
of Trump presidentcy, he seems has much less time tweeting then the
previous year when he was on campaign trail. Trump tweeted more and more
in the next two years of his presidency. It seems he is back on campaign
mode. Let us stop here for the moment, we want to shift our focus to
what Trump tweeted.

## Language used in Trump’s tweet

The language used in Trump tweet reflect what kind of message Trump want
to convey to the public. We want to look into the language he uses and
how it evolve with time.

![alt
text](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Wenlong-Y/trump_tweets/master/words_year.png)
